feat: Add docs for query parsing & validation caching (#157)
mirumee/ariadne-website: docs/query-validation-caching.md

---
id: query-validation-caching
title: Query validation caching
---

> In case you are serving complex queries, or a lot of identical queries, it might make sense for you to cache the query parsing and validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query parsing and validation steps can be extended with custom code adding an extra caching step, which in some situations can greatly improve server's speed at cost of greater memory usage.
```

---
id: query-validation-caching
title: Query validation caching
---

In case you are serving complex queries, or a lot of identical queries, it might make sense for you to cache the

> query parsing and validation.

Reviewer: Please don't break long lines manually.

> This can be done by providing a custom `query_parser` and `query_validator` to `GraphQL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done by setting a custom `query_parser` and `query_validator` on your `GraphQL` server instance:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

from collections.abc import Collection
from functools import lru_cache
from typing import Any

from ariadne import make_executable_schema
from ariadne.asgi import GraphQL
from ariadne.graphql import validate_query
from ariadne.types import ContextValue
from graphql import ASTValidationRule, DocumentNode, GraphQLError, GraphQLSchema, TypeInfo, parse

# Cached versions of the default parser and validator
cached_parser = lru_cache(maxsize=64)(parse)
cached_validator = lru_cache(maxsize=64)(validate_query)

def query_validator(
    schema: GraphQLSchema,
    document_ast: DocumentNode,
    rules: Collection[type[ASTValidationRule]] | None = None,
    max_errors: int | None = None,
    type_info: TypeInfo | None = None,
) -> list[GraphQLError]:

>     return cached_validator(schema=schema, document_ast=document_ast)

Author: Yes, they are hashable:
```python
>>> from graphql import parse

>>> hash(parse('query { a(b: String) { x } }'))
-8564336626102477568
```
